       STS 2014

				 STS

	       Semantic Textual Similarity for Spanish

			    Test DATASET
				   


This file describes the test dataset released for the SEMEVAL 2014
Multilingual Semantic Textual Similarity: Spanish subtask. 

The test dataset contains the following:

  README.txt			this file

  STS.gs.news.txt             gold standard file
  STS.gs.wikipedia.txt              "

  STS.input.news.txt		test input file with tab separated
				sentence pairs
  STS.input.wikipedia.txt	"
 
  STS.output.wikipedia.txt	tab separated sample output file



Introduction
------------

Given two sentences of text, s1 and s2, the systems participating in
this task should compute how similar s1 and s2 are, returning a
similarity score, and an optional confidence score. The scores should
range from 0 to 4, where 4 marks paraphrases, and 0, sentences that 
have absolutely no relation. 

The test dataset contains sentence pairs coming from the following:

1) Spanish news articles (news)
2) Wikipedia articles (wikipedia)

The datasets have been derived as follows:

- STS.input.news.txt: The sentences are extracted from recent newspaper 
  articles (2014) published in Spanish publications from around the 
  world. The articles were mined from the Google News Spanish service
  http://news.google.es/. 
- STS.input.wikipedia.txt: The sentences were selected from a December
  2013 dump of the Spanish version of Wikipedia.

NOTE: Participant systems should NOT use the following datasets to
develop or train their systems: 

- Spanish version of Wikipedia for the Wikipedia test set. 


Input format
------------

The input file consist of two fields separated by tabs:

- first sentence (does not contain tabs)
- second sentence (does not contain tabs)

Please check any of STS.input.*.txt files. The file encoding is UTF8 
(to correctly render diacritics).



Gold Standard
-------------

The gold standard contains a score between 0 and 4 for each pair of
sentences, with the following interpretation:

(4) The two sentences are completely equivalent, as they mean the same
    thing.  

      The bird is bathing in the sink.  
      Birdie is washing itself in the water basin.

      El pájaro se esta bañando en el lavabo.
      El pájaro se está lavando en el aguamanil.

(3) The two sentences are mostly equivalent, but some details differ.

      John said he is considered a witness but not a suspect.
      "He is not a suspect anymore." John said.

      John dijo que él es considerado como testigo, y no como sospechoso.
      "Él ya no es un sospechoso," John dijo.

(2) The two sentences are roughly equivalent, but some important
    information differs/missing.

      They flew out of the nest in groups.
      They flew into the nest together.

      Ellos volaron del nido en grupos. 
      Volaron hacia el nido juntos.

(1) The two sentences are not equivalent, but are on the same topic.

      The woman is playing the violin.
      The young lady enjoys listening to the guitar.

      La mujer está tocando el violín.
      La joven disfruta escuchar la guitarra.

(0) The two sentences are on different topics.

      John went horse back riding at dawn with a whole group of friends.
      Sunrise at dawn is a magnificent view to take in if you wake up
      early enough for it.

      Al amanecer, Juan se fue a montar a caballo con un grupo de amigos.
      La salida del sol al amanecer es una magnífica vista que puede presenciar
      si usted se despierta lo suficientemente temprano para verla.


Answer format
--------------

The answer format consists of a similarity score followed by
an optional confidence score. Each line has two fields separated by a
tab:

- a number between 0 and 4 (the similarity score)
- a number between 0 and 100 (the confidence score)

See file STS.output.wikipedia.txt for a Sample output file your system should 
generate..

The use of confidence scores is experimental, and it is not required
for the official score.


Scoring
-------

The official score is based on the average of Pearson correlation. The use of
confidence scores will be experimental, and it is not required for the
official scores. 



Participation in the task
-------------------------

Participant teams will be allowed to submit three runs at most.



Other
-----

Please check http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2014/task10/ for more details.



Authors
-------

Carmen Banea
Rada Mihalcea
Claire Cardie
Janyce Wiebe


